---
layout: bio
title: Bio
description: 'Ruth Erdt is half dutch and lives in Zürich and Berlin.'
---

h3. "Ruth Erdt":mailto:ruth@erdt.ch is half dutch and lives in Zürich and Berlin.


h5. Selection

h2. Solo Exhibitions

* _2011_	*The naked house*, NEXTLEVEL, London UK 
* _2010_ 	*Die Lügner*, Fotostiftung Winterthur, Switzerland
* _2010_ 	*Darkroom*, Neuropa / Alain Kupper, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2008_	*The casting system*, Message Salon / Esther Eppstein, Perla Mode, Switzerland
* _2005_ 	*Hasen, Hunde und Wurfgeschosse*, Message Salon / Esther Eppstein, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2001_ 	*Combine*, Message Salon / Esther Eppstein, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2001_	*Familienbilder*, Kunst Raum Kreuzlingen, Kreuzlingen, Switzerland

h2. Group Exhibitions

* _2012_	*Städtische Kunstpreise Zürich*, Helmhaus, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2012_	*The golden cage*, KunstBüroBerlin, Berlin, Germany
* _2012_	*Death can dance*, Townhouse, curated by lori Hersberger, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2011_ 	*Cyanotypes*, (with Eva Erdt-Vuillemin), Substitut Berlin, Germany
* _2011_	*Cyanotypes*, (with Eva Erdt-Vuillemin) Message Salon Esther Eppstein, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2010_	*Waffenbett*, Master MFA, Sheedhalle, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2006_ 	*Fragile*, Kunsthaus Langenthal, Switzerland
* _2003_ 	*Fototage Biel*, Switzerland
* _2002_ 	*Art Incentive Award*, Amstelveen, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
* _2002_	*Ikonen*, Coninx Museum, Zürich, Switzerland
* _2002_	*Backlight Phototrienale*, Tampere, Finnland
* _2001_ 	*M-Family*, Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst,  Zürich, Switzerland
* _2001_	*Urban Diary*, Galerie Bob van Orsouw, Zürich, Switzerland 
* _1999_ 	*YOUNG*, New Photography in Swiss Art, Fotomuseum Winterthur, Switzerland

h2. Selected Awards

* _2009_	*Landis&Gyr Atelier-Stipendium*, Artist-Residenz Berlin
* _2008_	*Stiftung UBS Award*
* _2008_	*Esther Matossi Award*
* _2002_ 	*Federal Award for Art & Design*, Switzerland
* _2000_ 	*Federal Award for Art & Design*, Switzerland
* _2000_ 	*Award Canton Zürich* (Studien- und Werkbeitrag des Kantons Zürich), Switzerland
* _1999_ 	*Federal award for Art & Design*, Switzerland
* _1990_ 	*Award Zürich* (Studium für bildende Kunst der Stadt Zürich)

h2. Publication

* _2001_	*The Gang*. Photo Book, Lars Müller Verlag, Baden, Switzerland.
* _2010_	*Cyanotypes* 16 – 22 Photo Book (Zine) designed Benedikt Reichenbach
* _2012_	*Die Lügner*. Photo Book, Kodoji Press (in progress)

h2. Catalogues

* _2011_ 	*Isolation*, Nextlevel Magazine, London UK
* _2009_	*Robert Frank*, Portrait-Series, GPD/BAK, Switzerland
* _2008_	*The Gang*, part of the work, Magazin DU,  Switzerland
* _2007_	*Photography, Made in Zürich*, Thomas Weski, Scheidegger & Spiess, Switzerland
* _2004_	*The Photography as Contemporary Art*. Charlotte Cotton, Thames and Hudson, Ltd: London, UK
* _2002_	*Backlight 02*, 6th international photographic triennial, Nykaika, Tampere, Finnland
* _2002_	*Hundert Portraits*, Christoph Merian Verlag, Basel, Switzerland
* _2002_	*Identitätssplitter*, Stahel, Urs, Neuer Berliner Kunstverein, Berlin, Germany
* _2000_	*M-Family*, Konzept Studion Achermann, Migros, Zürich, Switzerland
* _1999_	*Young Catalogue*, Fotomuseum Winterthur,  Christoph Merian Verlag,  Switzerland.
* _1999_	*Message Salon*, Andreas Züst Verlag, Zürich, Switzerland





